So in this video we're going to be looking at the scheme of our system or booking system database.
So this is what a typical database schema looks like.
It's basically a diagram of all the tables in your database and includes the relationships between those
tables.
So you can see for our database that we're going to create.
We have seven tables.
We have films table in the bottom left.
Then we have the screenings table rooms table seats table reserved seat table bookings table.
And then finally Customers table.
So let's have a look at each one of these.
So first let's look at the films table so you can see in the diagram we have free columns in this table.
We have an ID field which is an integer and you can see there's a little golden key by the ID and that
means it's all primary key.
So the ID fields are primary key for the fields to films table.
And then we have a name column and this is going to how the name of the film Savarkar data type.
And you can see a field in green diamond by the name field.
And this means that it's not a foreign key to this column but it does have to not know constrain.
So if food in green diamond or Fillon field in diamond of any color means that it's got not no constraint.
And then finally there's a length minute column and this is an integer.
And this will hold the length of the film in minutes.
So if it was two hours long it would hold a value of 120.
And this is also not know you can see that by the food in green diamond.
Next we have a screening table.
Now this has four columns.
It has a primary key id like normal.
Then we have a film ID and a room ID and you can see this has filled in red diamond next to the film
ID and the remedy.
And this means they have to not know constraint but because they're red It also means they're foreign
keys to columns in other tables.
So the film ID is a foreign key to the ID field in the films table.
And the my day is a foreign key to the ID field in the rooms table and you can see that this table has
a one to many relationship between films.
So one film can have many screenings but obviously one screening can only show one film doesn't make
sense if a screening is showing two films at once.
And also one to many relationship with the room stable.
So one room can show you many screenings throughout the day or throughout the month one screening can
only be shown in one room.
And finally we also have the start time of the screening and that the date time data type and this is
not a primary key but it does have the not no constraints that we have to fill in some data in that
column.
And next we have a Remes table.
Or you could call this an auditorium.
Basically is the room that holds the cinema screen where you go and watch the film and it has a primary
key id call him which is an end and has a name column so the name of the rooms.
So while cinema is actually going to have three rooms with three different names and then we have a
number of seats called him.
So this is the number of seats that each room holds and connected to that we have our seats table which
holds information on seat row and seat number.
So it has a primary key ID for each seat then it has their right to the row of the C A B C D etc. which
is a char data type of length 1.
Then we have a number so the number for each c so we can say row plus number.
So a 6 7 cetera and then it has a foreign key to the room ID to say which room the seat is in and you
can see it as a one to many relationship between the room and the seats table.
And basically this is saying a room can have many seats but a seat can only be in one room obviously.
And unless skip to the customers table now.
And this is going to hold information on all our customers who come to watch films in our cinema and
can see how the first and last name.
But we can see that their first name has diamonds but is not filled in.
And this is because it does not have a not no constraint.
So we can have customers who don't provide us with their first name but you can see that last name does
have a film in green diamond which means we've applied not no constraint to this last name column which
means we have to have that last name and then similarly we have an email which is also has the not no
constraint.
So we have to have that email so we can contact them.
We can advertise to them we can send notifications to them and then we have the stable which has a primary
key ID and it has two more columns.
So this is going to hold information about each booking that a customer makes.
So we have a screening I.D. which is a foreign key to the ID field in the screening table.
So this is going to tell us which screening that booking is for.
And it also has a customer I.D. foreign key to the ID field in the Customers table.
So we know which customer made this booking.
And you can see the bookings table has a one to many relationship between customers and the bookings.
So one customer can make many bookings but a single booking can only be associated with one customer
which makes sense.
And then there's also one to many relationship between the screenings table and the bookings table.
So one screening can have many bookings but one booking can only be associated with one screening.
And then finally we have a reserved seat table.
Now this is like a junction table.
So there's actually a many to many relationship between the seats and the bookings table.
So one seat can show up in many different bookings depending on the screening and one booking can contain
many seats.
So a customer can book two seats at once.
So because bookings and seats have a many to many relationship we need to have a junction table which
is all reserved seat table.
So it's as an I.D. and then it has two foreign keys as a booking ID which is the ID field and the bookings
table and it has a C ID which is the ID field in the seats table.
So let's say a customer made a booking and he booked four seats in one screening then this bookings
table is only going to have one entry for that customer.
One row of data for that customer he booked four seats but there's going to be four entries in the reserved
seat table.
So one entry for each of the seats that the customer booked and you can see obviously there's a one
to many relationship between the bookings table and the reserved seat table.
And there's a one to many relationship between the seat and the reserved seat table.
OK so I think that's enough.
Talking about our database schema.
Now let's get on and actually create the tables in our database.